---
author: Daniel Kennett
date: '2004-12-10 15:22:16'
layout: post
slug: h2e
status: publish
title: H2E!
wordpress_id: '9'
categories:
- General
---

On December 7th, there was a collection of people here for the ultimate
gaming event... H2E (which is a snazzy acronym for the rather boring
name "Halo 2 Event"). There would be 5 teams of two, in a battle for the
grand prize!
![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/h2e/gmc.jpg)
\
 ... the Golden Master Chiefs! Two of them, to be precise seeing as
there's two people in each team. The winner was decided over 5 rounds of
Team Deathmatch, with the winner getting 8 points, 2nd place getting 6,
etc. The champions will be the people with most points.
![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/h2e/group.jpg)
\
 This was the collection of people that took part. From top-to-bottom,
left-to-right they are: Top Row: Darren, Marcus (Gilb), Jonny Middle
Row: Michelle, Luke, Wil Bottom Row: James (Jimmy, Squirrel), Stuart,
Daniel (Me!), Robin That's right, a girl! At a video game event! I'm
afraid she didn't break the "girls don't play shooty games"
stereotype... the plan was for her to play a tennis game on a PS2 in the
corner but that failed because of technical difficulties (Darren forgot
the remote for his TV, which you need to get it onto the AV channel) so
she ended up keeping scores and handing out drinks and cake.
![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/h2e/michelle.jpg)\
Nobody else thought it was cold enough to wear a scarf indoors...
\
 In the few days before the event, I went round and collected my
friend's (very generously) donated TVs and Xboxes and set them all up on
my home network. For the geeks out there: My network is a switched
1000/100/10-baseT affair and is all static IPs, but I set up my server
machine to be a DHCP server for the evening. My things kept their static
IPs but everyone else's Xboxes used DHCP. Worked without a hiccup! In
total we had 5 Xboxes and TVs arranged around the room. But first...
pizza. After a trip to Tesco and Pizza Hut, we had 4 large pizzas, a
load of garlic and enough drink to fill a swimming pool. A few minutes
spent eating and drinking, and we were ready to go! The room was laid
out as such:
![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/h2e/room1.jpg)\
Most people were in
here...![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/h2e/room2.jpg)\
...but Marcus and Luke were over there!
I ended up on my own instead of in a team as there were only 9 taking
part and as I organised the thing and made the prizes, it was unfair if
I had a chance of winning. Thing is, I managed to not come last in a
couple of the rounds, until Stuart found out about dual-wielding
needlers. Many times after that you heard someone shout "Pink! It's all
*pink!* followed by a violent death. By the end of it there was a clear
winner - Team Trout (Marcus and Luke). They were presented with their
prize by Robin...
![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/h2e/winners.jpg)
\
 ... and one of the Master Chiefs promptly got violated by the other ...
![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/h2e/violated.jpg)
\
 Right, with the tournament over it was time for... cake! A quick trip
to the Co-Op by Stuart yielded 4 cakes... and Michelle the serving
lady\* got it cut up and distributed in no time. \* Michelle isn't
actually a serving lady. Michelle, please don't kill me. More gaming.
This time, two big teams (5 vs 4) against each other in a few rounds of
Capture the Flag (CTF), and we arranged the Xboxes into two team areas
for better play. This is blue team:
![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/h2e/blueteam.jpg)
\
 Red Team were the other guys who are out of shot. We did have a bit of
an unfair advantage though... Our team had 5 players, and red team had
Stuart. Not to be harsh on him, but he did spend a fair 10 minutes in
the first CTF game trying to figure out what was going on... "Right so
we get the flag from their base... and bring it back here?" Then he
managed to kill his team mates on more than one occasion. In fact, that
was Red Team's excuse for losing so badly... "You had 5 players, and we
had Stuart!" I also think that having the two MCs on our big TV helped a
bit - but it was 99% skill on our part!
![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/h2e/mc-tv.jpg)
\
 Our last flag capture was in fact the best... on Coagulation, we ran
the whole way back on foot as a team - when the flag carrier got killed
the next guy picked it up and continued running! My part of this relay
lasted about 10 seconds and consisted of jumping around screaming while
being shot in the back by three people. Nice! So, all in all it was a
successful night! I didn't win the tournament, but I was part of the
winning team in all the big team games. Bitches.
