---
author: Daniel Kennett
date: '2006-08-13 04:59:33'
layout: post
slug: wwdc-2006
status: publish
title: WWDC 2006
wordpress_id: '29'
categories:
- General
---

From Monday 7th to Friday 11th August, 2006 I attended Apple's WWDC,
which is a conference for developers. We learned all about the new stuff
coming out of Apple, such as the internals of the next version of Mac OS
X - [Leopard](http://www.apple.com/macosx/leopard/) - which is all under
NDA so I can't talk about it. I can, however, talk about the general
experience of an event like this. Just in case it doesn't come out in
what I write below, I was in geek nirvana for the whole week. It's the
coolest thing I've ever been to, ever. As always, click pictures for
bigger versions.
[![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0929.jpg)](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0929_big.jpg)
[![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0918.jpg)](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0918_big.jpg)
This is my first WWDC, so I wasn't quite sure what to expect... but I
was (pleasantly) surprised with what I got. The atmosphere is very open
- you're encouraged to talk and interact with other attendees, and the
lobby areas are laid out to reflect this.
[![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0935.jpg)](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0935_big.jpg)
You're also fed and watered all day - you get breakfast, a hot lunch and
a hot dinner every day. During the day when it isn't mealtime, there's
snacks and drinks for you to take at your leisure. There's three types
of events to attend WWDC - sessions, labs and community events - and so
many of each you've got no chance of attending them all.
[![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0927.jpg)](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0927_big.jpg)
Sessions are normally presentations given about a particular subject.
There are also a few "hands on" sessions, which let you follow along
with what's happening on your own computer, and "feedback forums" let
you talk back to the developers of a particular part of the system and
give them opinions, requests, etc. Labs are open rooms full of computers
where you can go and work on your code. In all but the general labs, the
engineers of the particular part of the system you're working with are
present and will help you with your problems. It's wonderful being on
the same footing as the people who wrote the system, and having their
help gives such an amazing leap forward. Community events are a little
bit different. The two on-site I attended were the Apple Design Awards
and Stump the Experts, both held in Presidio.
[![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0938.jpg)](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0938_big.jpg)
The Design Awards are awarded to the best Mac OS X programs in various
categories. Unfortunately, I couldn't enter my program this year since
it didn't meet the entry requirements (it isn't
[Universal](http://www.apple.com/universal/) yet) but I hope to enter it
(them?) next year.
[![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0923.jpg)](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0923_big.jpg)
Stump the Experts is a little more... informal. 15 or so Apple engineers
- old and new - gather on stage and fight with the audience with the
most nerdy Mac trivia imaginable. We ask them questions, they ask them
back and we battle it out. I didn't take part since I'm a rookie, but I
did learn how the phone numbers of certain Apple engineers ended up on
the Mac OS Classic install discs, which non-CPU Apple product can speak
the names of it's developers with the press of a single button, and so
on. It was a hilarious hour and a half, and the 'experts' only won
because they're dirty cheaters!
[![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0946.jpg)](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0946_big.jpg)
The third community event I attended was the Apple Campus bash, which
was held at Apple's headquarters in Cupertino. We were all herded onto
buses for the 40 minute drive over there. The campus is pretty
impressive! The photo below shows the inside of the main building's
lobby.
[![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0950.jpg)](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0950_big.jpg)
This year, the entertainment was essentially an open-air rave, which we
didn't stay at for long!
[![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0960.jpg)](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0960_big.jpg)
**Random Tidbits** Whilst wandering through WWDC, I stumbled across some
pretty good advice:
[![image](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0933.jpg)](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/wwdc/conf/IMG_0933_big.jpg)
