---
author: Daniel Kennett
date: '2008-01-21 20:53:06'
layout: post
slug: unavoidable-regression
status: publish
title: Unavoidable Regression
wordpress_id: '36'
categories:
- Cars, Models &amp; Gadgets
---

In the past year (or two?), it would seem I've gotten all growed up and
moved into my own house, settled into a jobs that's only slightly less
stressful than ~~herding~~ teaching 5-year-olds and even got one of
those long term girlfriend things you read about in the magazines. How
odd, then, that the things I've long since left in the realms of being a
dumb kid now seem to fill my wants more than ever. Sure, there's the
normal adult desires of wanting to sleep on a bed of money while my
terribly good looking wife bakes cakes for breakfast, but since I'm in
the perhaps *unusual* position of being comfortable with my earnings
(especially just 6 months out of University) they're not at the front of
my mind. Now I think about it, it's not odd at all. There always seems
to be a yearning for what used to be as we look back with rosy-tinted
glasses, remembering (perhaps wrongly) how things were simpler, cheaper
and more fun. Since I'm fairly young, my memories go back to early
childhood, when I had a train set and an awesome dog. And, obviously,
for the past year I've not been able to walk past a model shop or proper
dog ((A 'proper' dog is an animal that is big, awesome, and barks. Dogs
that yap, look like rats or can't run faster than *God* don't count.
Prime examples include Labradors, Huskies and German Shepherds.))
without stopping and gazing longingly at them. So, what to do? I've
decided that since they're both expensive, I can have one or the other.
**Awesome Dog** Childhood memory 1 is thundering down a
lane/field/river/etc closely pursued, then underneath, either Bosun (our
black Labrador) or more recently Sam, our faster-than-God Collie cross.
![Sam](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/posts/regression/sam.jpg) \
*Sam, being lazy.*
Now, dogs are quite *alive*, thus needing constant care and attention.
Something I'm able to give morning and night, but not during the day.
While I could get someone to walk it during the day, I still think I'm
at work far too much to be able to keep a dog - especially a big one -
in my home. Even though I'd put up posters around the area much like the
following, I can't justify owning a dog right now.
![Poster](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/posts/regression/dogposter.jpg)
**Awesome Railway** Childhood memory 2 is being in my bedroom, past
bedtime. I'd received an Intercity 225 train set for Christmas, which
was now set up on a 6'x4' board on my bedroom floor. Dad was telling me
not to play with my trains after bedtime, and that they could tell
because the motors in them interfered with the TV. "Aha!" I thought,
"I'll just push them around!" Being pleased at being such a boy genius,
it of course hadn't occurred to me that 16 pairs of metal wheels rolling
around on metal track (and the resulting carnage of the train leaving
the track after being pushed too fast) made a hell of a racket and I was
once again scolded for my persistence. I finally got the better of those
pesky parents by pushing a single carriage around slowly. That was
boring, so I went to bed. While I'm well aware that most adult model
railway owners look very much like this:
![Nerd](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/posts/regression/nerd.jpg)
I think building a large model railway is something that can be engaging
and rewarding, while a train set is what kids play with. See attached
diagram:
![Diagram](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/posts/regression/diagram.jpg)
I'll be doing the one on the right. My prior experience into this is
recently getting into R/C cars. I've build a few of them and painted
many vehicle bodies - including one that looks very much like my RX-8.
![1/10 RX-8](http://danielkennett.org/pictures/rc/ta04_rx8.jpg) If you
look at the expense on its own, the cost of making models is quite high.
However, the enjoyment gained from building and tuning them makes it
well worth it. And it's not like this railway would be a small project -
hopefully I'll be building a large layout around the outside of my loft.
Well, that's it. I've decided that to fill my spare time and stop my
savings accounts filling up with that darned money, I'll be investing my
time into one of those - most probably the railway.
