---
author: Daniel Kennett
date: '2008-04-04 19:52:55'
layout: post
slug: when-it-rains
status: publish
title: When it rains...
wordpress_id: '94'
categories:
- General
---

Wow, what a couple of weeks. I think I've had the most stressful time in
the fast two or three weeks than the rest of my life put together. Now,
I hate to complain about stuff but now life is returning to normal (and
I'm going on holiday tomorrow - yay!) I feel I *ex*plain what's been
going on. **Credit Crunch** *Now with added crunchiness!* Turns out that
the banks getting skittish about lending money to idiots like me
affected... well, *me*. I'm not selling my house any more - the property
sales market isn't doing that well, so I'm renting it out instead. This
means having two mortgages, and spreading the equity in my current
mortgage to the second property. A few weeks ago, this was absolutely no
problem. One day, my financial advisor phoned up and said "Ok, the
mortgage company is pulling this product at 2pm this afternoon, and if
you want it, *which you do*, you need to get up here and sign the
paperwork." So, I got up there, signed the paperwork, and got the second
mortgage deal I wanted just in time. Once this was settled, I went ahead
and put an offer in on my new house, which was accepted. This should
have been simple - just port the existing mortgage over to the new
property, with a top-up to make up for the extra cost of the more
awesome house. However, on the weekend before the Tuesday I was going to
go and sign the paperwork, the mortgage company pulled that product.
Since I'm locked in with this particular company until August, this
posed a problem. In fact, my advisor said: "I can't see any way of doing
what you want to do at the moment without significant extra financial
input from you." So, I sat at home, alone, wondering what the hell to
do. I'd already committed to purchasing the new property, and pulling
out because of something like this would've caused untold problems. For
a while, for the first time in my life, I was completely stuck with
seemingly no way out. Ten minutes later, the phone rang. It was Jamie,
my financial advisor. "We've had an idea!" he said, excitedly. At least
for now, the mortgages are going smoothly and the property purchase is
progressing. **HSBC** *EPIC FAIL* My business relies on customers buy
our stuff to make money. With me so far? Good. For customers to buy our
stuff on the internet, we need a system to transfer money from their
accounts into ours. Luckily, someone thought of this and invented
credit/debit cards. Most banks (and some independents) provide a service
to charge the customer and have it end up in your account. Every single
time you use a card, a service like this is used. Ours is provided by
HSBC. And it's crap. Seriously. The documentation is written with the
assumption that you wrote the system in the first place and already know
how it works. It also assumes that you wrote the documentation and know
where the mistakes (of which there are many) are. Over the last weekend,
the HSBC system was down for almost three days, costing the company a
silly amount of money and severely inhibiting my ability to pay my staff
and my bills. So, that's it. I've had enough of HSBC's shitty service.
I'm moving banks as fast as I possibly can, but not before I can kick up
enough fuss to get compensation for HSBC's constant inability to run a
bank. **Misc.** Add to all that a smattering of other stuff, like Dove
Volvo's inability to consistently (Oh, I got my new car, by the way)
tell me what they're called so I can pay them, and a fairly close call
on getting the parts in the let the car carry three bikes for our trip
tomorrow. Oh, yes, and one of the hard drives failed in our server so I
had to drive into the middle of London to replace it. Lovely. But, screw
that shit, I'm going on holiday tomorrow. And while I'm gone, anyone
who's not contacting me to tell me that: 1) I've won several million
pounds or 2) that I am, in fact, the most awesome guy ever can kiss my
not-quite-as-fat-as-it-was arse.
