---
author: Daniel Kennett
date: '2008-04-23 22:14:55'
layout: post
slug: on-travelling-and-being-a-loner
status: publish
title: On Travelling And Being A Loner
wordpress_id: '126'
categories:
- General
---

Just a moment ago, I booked our flights to go to
[WWDC](http://developer.apple.com/wwdc/) in June. Sitting there staring
at the massive amount of money that's just been added to my total debt
((Three days to clear my eye - about 30 seconds after the booking
confirmation page appeared in my browser I received a *text* from my
credit card company telling me I was approaching my limit!)), I realised
just how much time I'll be spending on one of these this year:
[![image](http://danielkennett.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/04/023jumbo_468x329.jpg "BA 747")](http://danielkennett.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/04/023jumbo_468x329.jpg)
Note to plane nerds: I don't know if that's actually the exact model of
plane I'll be flying on. In June, I'm flying to San Francisco and back,
which is approximately 5,500 miles each way. In December I'm flying to
Perth and back to see my family for Christmas, which is about 9,500
miles each way. So, assuming that the planes fly in fairly straight
lines to their destinations (which I'm well aware that they don't), I'll
be flying approximately 30,000 miles this year! To show this small feat,
allow me to present a map:
[![image](http://danielkennett.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/04/maps.jpg "maps")](http://danielkennett.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/04/maps.jpg)
It'd actually be less distance to fly *around the world* from London to
America to Australia and back to London! Normally, I'd be exited about
this. And this time is no different - I had an amazing time in San
Francisco and California last time I was there, which I
[documented](http://danielkennett.org/blog/2006/08/wwdc-day-1/)
[really](http://danielkennett.org/blog/2006/08/wwdc-2006/)
[quite](http://danielkennett.org/blog/2006/08/the-day-to-end-all-days/)
[concisely](http://danielkennett.org/blog/2006/08/its-a-mini-adventure/). San Francisco is an amazing
city, and there's something about being in a brand new place halfway
around the world all on your own that's somehow empowering - it's hard
to describe. However, I'm a little worried that this time it won't be as
amazing because I'll have been there before and I won't be alone.
Obviously it'll be more fun with someone there, but I'm a loner at
heart, and savour the rare opportunity to disappear from daily life for
a while. Big groups of people don't appeal to me. Sure, it's nice to see
friends and family (especially when you haven't seen them for a long
time), so on the Australia trip I'll stick with the family group and
have fun - *genuine* fun - even though if I went on my own I'd be doing
something completely different. It's the same with everything in my life
really - given the choice between groups and one-to-one meetings, I'll
go one-to-one more often than not. In a group, you just have some
people. One-to-one, *especially* if you're close to that person, you get
something different. Suddenly that moment of silence speaks just as much
as the sentence preceding it, or answers the question that bit more
succinctly. These days people tend to think that you only get that sort
of thing in relationships that also (or will) include physical intimacy,
but they're very wrong. Perhaps I'm like this on purpose.
Subconsciously, my mind is making me become fairly quiet because all
around me people seem to be just sharing information as soon as it pops
into their minds. I really don't get people who constantly text or talk
online - the only way you can constantly talk to someone for that amount
of time is to share mind-numbingly *useless* information. Who the hell
*cares* if I saw a green car that looked like my friend's green car
today? Or that I had beef for lunch? Actually, this isn't subconscious -
it's an active annoyance of mine. Plus, you need to think of the quality
dilution of the information. Sure, I could've text my girlfriend with
"lol, Tim just fell off his bike" seconds after he walloped me round the
skull with his boots, but then that's that story told and the surprise
lost. Instead, I waited until I saw her and told the story in person -
and she and I enjoyed it much more that way. One day, I'm going to go
away - on my own - to somewhere amazing. Don't know where, and I don't
care at the moment. I'll switch off my phone and my computer for a week
and sit on a rock, a bench, a log, or something else with my camera and
watch the world go by while thinking about the world go by. Everyone I
know will either be annoyed that I didn't take them or will worry and
wonder about my sanity, my health, my emotional status - much as they
seem to every time I do something alone or keep a thought to myself. At
the same time I'll still be sitting there, this time trying to imagine
why that man is carrying a bundle of sticks, and what he's going to do
with them. I'll return with beautiful photos of normal things. And,
while it'll frustrate me a bit that nobody else will understand why that
photo of an old man carrying some sticks is so meaningful, most of me
will *sing*.
