---
author: Daniel Kennett
date: '2009-12-18 14:49:08'
layout: post
slug: why-crashing-your-car-on-purpose-is-a-smart-thing-to-do%e2%80%a6-sometimes
status: publish
title: Why crashing your car on purpose is a smart thing to do… Sometimes.
wordpress_id: '508'
categories:
- Cars, Models &amp; Gadgets
  
---

I'm writing this on one of the three or four days per year that we get a
healthy covering of snow here in the UK, and naturally the news is
[filled](http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/8420057.stm)
[with](http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/sussex/8420021.stm)
[stories](http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/oxfordshire/8419831.stm)
[about](http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/8420093.stm) how there's
chaos on the roads and how we should all be huddled up at home eating
canned soup. Compare this situation to Germany, Sweden or any other
country that has regular snow — hell, even
[Scotland](http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/8418457.stm) — and by the time
you awake in the morning a fleet of snowploughs has cleared all of the
roads and life goes on as normal.

## Problem Lies Between Steering Wheel and Chair

"We're not equipped well enough for the snow!" we all cry, blaming the
councils for not having enough equipment to clear the roads. Well, yes.
Of *course* they don't. It snows so rarely in most parts of the UK that
it simply isn't worth investing in the infrastructure required to keep
the roads that clear. The problem is that most drivers in the UK simply
don't know how to deal with snow. Compounded with the typical bullish
stubbornness we Brits seem to be famous for, this means most drivers
will go out in the snow *anyway* and cause ton of trouble. This can be
fixed with driver training. I'm fortunate enough to have had a lot of
on- and off-track training in various cars over the past few years. This
kind of skill is *absolutely* applicable to driving on the road,
*especially* in snowy, icy or wet conditions. When you're screaming
around a dry race track, you learn to control the car at the very edge
of its mechanical grip to eke out every last bit of performance — and if
you cross that line, you learn how to control that lack of grip and
bring the car back in to check. Now, in the dry you should never be
approaching these limits on a public road, but in the ice and snow you
*will* be hitting these limits *very* quickly. The *best* training for
this is track driving in the wet. A couple of years ago, exactly that
happened, and I ended up spending most of the day being trained to drive
a rear-wheel drive car around a wet, snowy Nüburgring as fast as humanly
possible. I advanced about six levels of driving skill that day!

[![Driving around a snowy Nürburgring](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2703/4194378323_80a9e41877.jpg)](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2703/4194378323_80a9e41877_b.jpg "Driving around a snowy Nürburgring")\
(View on
[Flickr](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/4194378323%20))

\

## Teaching Yourself

Now, I'm the first to admit that driving a sports car around a snowy
race track is far from common, so do the next best thing — when it
snows, find a safe place to go and play with your car. Today was the
first snow day with my current car, so my girlfriend and I went to a
local country lane that's perfect for this — it's dead straight and has
high grass banks on each side so you can bump into them with no damage.
It's vitally important to know both what to do when you start losing
control in the ice and snow, and perhaps more importantly ***how your
own car behaves*** in these conditions. Why? Well, on modern cars, when
ABS kicks in the car makes crunching sounds and the brake pedal starts
kicking back at you. When stability control kicks in, it grabs at
individual brakes and the steering wheel starts fighting back at you.
Experiencing these for the first time when you're hurtling towards an
accident is *not* the way to experience them for the first time — most
people (myself included) instinctively release the brake pedal or
steering wheel the first time they feel the car "fighting back", since
it feels like you're doing damage.

## The Three Rules of Correcting a Fishtail

To find out how your car behaves, you first need to know how to make the
car stable again.

### Stability Control isn't Magic

I've heard many people say "Oh, my car has stability control, so I'll be
OK - I can just let go of the steering wheel and it'll sort itself out."
Unfortunately, traction control is bound by the same laws of physics
that everything else is, so this isn't the case. The main thing to
remember is that stability control *helps* you maintain stability. If
you just let go of the steering wheel, or just hold it straight when you
start to lose control, **nothing will happen**. Stability control helps
by helping the car go in the right direction by comparing the direction
the car is going (found using accelerometers located throughout the car)
to the direction you want it to (**found using the angle that the
steering wheel is at**), and braking individual wheels to get the car
pointed in that direction. This leads nicely to…

### Always Point the Front Wheels Where You Want To Go

This is a more useful version of the "Turn into a skid" advice. If your
car has stability control, this tells it which direction you want to go.
In addition, this helps with mechanical grip. In most situations in
snow, the direction you want to go is the direction you're already
going, and keeping the front wheels pointing down the road keeps them in
grip, giving you more control. Also, if you suddenly find traction you
really don't want the car suddenly swerving towards oncoming traffic.

### For the Love of God, Only Brake In a Straight Line

When your car is breaking free at the rear, the worst possible thing you
can do is slam the brakes on. This will cause the front to slow down
more than the back, since it has more grip because there's more weight
over it (the engine and the downward force caused by the centre of
gravity moving forwards during braking), and the back will try and
overtake the front, causing your spin to become much, much worse.

## Putting This Into Practice

Now you know the theories behind a how a car behaves, it's time to
practice! Go find that safe place in the snow, and try the following:

### Straight Line Braking

Speed up to about 20-25mph, and slam the brakes on. The crunching,
pulsing feeling coming through the brake pedal is fine — that's ABS
doing it's thing. Make note of what your car does during this — it may
pull to the left or right, and the feeling through the pedal varies from
a light vibration to a heavy pounding depending on the system. In snow,
some implementations of ABS are completely useless — if you're not
slowing down, brake more gently to slow the car down without ABS.

### Cornering

Next, drive at 20-25mph again and start to turn left then right a little
bit, driving in a wavy line. Start very gently with the wheel,
increasing the aggressiveness bit by bit until the car starts to break
grip. Observe both how much it takes for you to lose grip, and what the
stability control does to try and help — as it starts grabbing at the
brakes the steering wheel may fight back — it's important to keep a firm
grip. In some cases, the *traction* control may kick in, limiting the
amount of power given to the wheels. Once you've done this, try to get
the back end to break free a bit — this can be done by coming off the
accelerator just as you're changing direction in your wavy line — do it
enough and the centre of gravity will shift forwards enough for the back
end to break loose. Once this happens, remember the rules above: tell
the car where you want it to go with the steering wheel, and don't slam
on the brakes. Getting the steering right is a bit of an art — too much
or little steering will give too much or little correction. Thankfully,
since you're going slowly in a safe place, you should hit nothing or
something soft when you get it wrong. **If your car didn't break
loose**: As might be expected, my Volvo stubbornly refuses to do
anything remotely exciting in the snow. Time to help it: When you're
changing direction as before, flick up the handbrake briefly to get the
back end loose. Remember to let it go — if your rear wheels are locked
you won't be able to do much!

### If You're Brave…

Now, if you're brave, find out what happens when you ignore the above
rules — when the back end breaks free, let go of the wheel and slam on
the brakes, as you might when panicing. After many successful recoveries
using the above rules, when my girlfriend tried to do this, the car
immediately left the road and got stuck in the verge, ploughing the snow
flat as it went:

[![Stuck in the Snow](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2528/4194351001_cd96121887.jpg)](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2528/4194351001_cd96121887_b.jpg "Stuck in the Snow")\
(View on [Flickr](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/4194351001))

Thankfully, my girlfriend and I are both smart enough to know how to get
a car unstuck — be patient and be *very* gentle on the clutch. In this
situation, torque is your worst enemy, so start in as high a gear as you
can (we were using 2nd and 3rd) and feather the clutch just enough to
make the car move. You also want weight over the drive wheels, so if
your car is rear-wheel drive, make everyone get in the back.

## "Wait, you're saying this is a *good* idea?"

Many people I know will tell me I'm being irresponsible for doing this
myself, let alone telling others to do it. However, I *saw* one of those
people nearly trash £55,000 worth of Porsche by simply letting go of the
wheel and hitting the brakes when the back end broke loose, so what the
hell do they know? When you're dealing with a car that's losing control,
you *need* to know how the car behaves in order to concentrate on
getting it back in check. When you start losing control, you have
seconds to react and fix it before you go past the point of no return.
If you're already compensating for your car's tendency to pull right
under heavy braking in the snow by the time it happens and putting in
exactly the right amount of steering to stabilise the car and allow
stability control to do its job, you have a *much* better chance of
coming out of it without a dented car or skull than someone who's
thinking "Shit, what's what crunching sound?! Why is my car pulling to
the left? Why has my car lost power?" I do these exercises every year to
make sure I'm good enough at controlling the car to allow myself out on
the roads in the snow. If you don't want to do this, I *strongly*
recommend booking a track day and getting some tuition. It doesn't
matter if you've never driven on a track before — when you greet your
instructor and tell him that you want to learn how to control your car
at the limit so you're safer in the wet and snow you'll *instantly* earn
genuine respect from him and be better than 95% of everyone else on the
road.
