---
author: Daniel Kennett
date: '2009-07-27 16:53:39'
layout: post
slug: i-fought-the-law
status: publish
title: I Fought the Law?
wordpress_id: '384'
categories:
- General
---

I first started using computers on a day-to-day basis in the late
nineties, making me around thirteen. Like most thirteen year-olds, I had
an active imagination and wanted to do all the cool stuff I read about
in Mac magazines with [Claris Homepage](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Claris_Homepage) and Photoshop.
However, also like most thirteen year-olds, I didn't have a job, so I
ended up downloading the software illegally using the now-defunct
[Hotline](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hotline_Communications). Even as
a thirteen year-old, I didn't like what I was doing. I was more than
aware that I was stealing and hated it. In fact, if I knew that I'd use
something seriously, I used to beg my parents for extra pocket money so
I could save up and buy it - I remember my Mum taking me to our local
Mac reseller in Alfreton to buy Mac OS 8.5 when it was released.
Nowadays, of course, I don't own a single piece of illegally obtained
software. I don't have any software on my machines used to get illegal
software/music/etc like Limewire or whatever. I'm more than willing to
pay for the software I use as part of my work or hobbies, and totally
understand the value in software - it's very rare I find a piece of
software I think is overpriced. ![Software Licenses](http://danielkennett.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/07/licenses-small.png "Software Licenses")

### Boxes are *so* 1990's

Cut to 2009, and it's rarer and rarer that we buy boxed products. The
iTunes Store has given us instant access to music, movies, TV and iPhone
apps. Platforms like Steam give us near instant access to a plethora of
games, and there are many other digital download stores for games. Hell,
you can even download games on your Nintendo DS! So, picture the
situation. Something on TV reminds me about the firm *The Girl Next
Door*, which it turns out my girlfriend hasn't seen. "*Aha!*" I exclaim,
"Why don't we watch it tonight? I'm sure I have it somewhere." A quick
search of my DVD shelves yielded nothing, so I consulted my [Delicious Library](http://danielkennett.org/deliciouslibrary/). Nada. "I'm sure I
had it", I said, "Never mind, we can get it on iTunes." Turns out no.
So, what now? We really wanted to see the movie, so I resorted to
Amazon. The movie was something like Â£4, and I also spotted a game I
want for a similarly cheap price so I ordered them both. Delivery
estimate: a few days. However, we really wanted to see the film. NOW.
Well, now I've paid for the film, it's not immoral to go and download
it. So, after downloading [Transmission](http://www.transmissionbt.com/)
and a quick visit to [The Pirate Bay](http://thepiratebay.org/), I was
in business. A quick transcode to H.264 and we were watching the film on
the AppleTV. Amazon emailed to tell me I wouldn't get my game until
after the weekend. No biggie. We were going camping, and I was looking
forward to putting our brand new [Party Grill](http://www.campingaz.com/p-23123-party-grill174-carry-bag.aspx)
to the test! However, camping got cancelled. With a now empty weekend, I
really wanted to play my game. I scoured local outlets for a copy,
literally checking over ten shops in three or four towns, to no avail.
Doing a bit of research, I found that recently the developers of the
game recently released an official patch that
[removed](http://forums.ubi.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/6061083365/m/4261053247?r=1931093247#1931093247)
the game's copy protection. So, again I visit The Pirate Bay and
download a copy of the game. When I apply the patch, I find that you
only need to enter the CD key to play online so I merrily played a few
missions over the weekend. Come Monday, Amazon's delivery arrives, and
I'm now the proud owner of official copies of both The Girl Next Door
and The Settlers. Included in the photos are both my downloaded copy of
the film (playing in iTunes) and The Settlers, on a DVD-R. [![My Goods](http://danielkennett.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/07/settlers.jpg "My Goods")](http://danielkennett.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/07/settlers-big.jpg)

### Discuss.

So, was what I did illegal? Obviously, *morally* I've got no problem,
but if some law official was in a really bad mood, could they have a
case against me? I'm not so sure... **The act of breaking DRM is
illegal, i.e. ripping a DVD.** I didn't do that. However, someone else
*might* have done so to create the copy I downloaded. **The act of
breaking DRM is illegal, i.e. "cracking" a game.** I didn't do that,
either. The copy protection was removed officially by the game's
creators. **It's legal to create backup copies of your digital stuff as
long as you also have a license for it.** I had both a license to watch
the film and play the game, as technically the licenses are transferred
to me by the reseller as soon as my card is charged as part of our
contract of sale. Therefore, I could absolutely (and rightly, in my
opinion) claim that I was using my backups ((Although the right to have
backups and the law against breaking DRM conflict with each other when
backing up DVDs.)) . The only thing is, the physical discs used to make
the backups aren't the ones contained in the boxes I received. So, what
do you think? I'm not in fear of being hauled away to jail, but I'm
genuinely interested in the legalities of this, especially if said law
official came round during the weekend while I was playing games and
watching films before the discs physically arrived.
