---
author: Daniel Kennett
date: '2010-08-30 17:28:09'
layout: post
slug: photography-the-long-awaited-comeback
status: publish
title: 'Photography: The Long-Awaited Comeback'
wordpress_id: '586'
categories:
- Sweden
---

A long time ago (well, two-five years ago), I used to do a lot of
photography. Not *professional* photography, but I used to go out with
my camera and take pictures for the purpose of taking pictures. This
started when I was a kid and my Dad let me use his Olympus OM-1 — a
fully manual camera whose battery was optional and only powered the
light meter. He taught me how to use it, how shutter speed and aperture
size worked and what they did to the picture, and so on. From then, I
was hooked.

Some of my early photos from that camera:

[![Ogston River](http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4093/4942044624_40da12c73d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/4942044624 "View 'Ogston River' on Flickr.com")[](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/4942043072 "View 'Pine Tree' on Flickr.com")

[![Pine Tree](http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4122/4942043072_f3c41995fd.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/4942043072 "View 'Pine Tree' on Flickr.com")

More recently, real life has got in the way of this. My amazing camera
and lens (an EOS 5D with a 28-105 f/4 USM L) has been relegated to
taking holiday snaps and other menial tasks that I could use a compact
camera for. Indeed, a couple of years ago I bought a Nikon P6000 compact
as it's easier to carry around.

A few months ago, I noticed that the screen on my 5D was failing. I'd
been wanting to replace it with a 7D for a while, but I was actually
upset when I saw the faulty screen — my 5D is five years old and full of
dents and scrapes, each of which has a story attached — most of them are
from clambering up and down rocks and waterfalls at Yosemite National
Park.

[![image](http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4097/4941615675_6091c3aa96.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/4941615675 "View 'http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4097/4941615675_6091c3aa96.jpg' on Flickr.com")[](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/4942191866 "View 'http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4138/4942191866_4a47cc3842.jpg' on Flickr.com")

[![image](http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4138/4942191866_4a47cc3842.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/4942191866 "View 'http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4138/4942191866_4a47cc3842.jpg' on Flickr.com")[](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/4942178108 "View 'http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4142/4942178108_e10dec699b.jpg' on Flickr.com")

[![image](http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4142/4942178108_e10dec699b.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/4942178108 "View 'http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4142/4942178108_e10dec699b.jpg' on Flickr.com")

Moving to Sweden has given me a great reason to get back into
photography again — this is a *beautiful* country. I've decided to
endeavour to publish one photo per day for the next year, and if I
succeed I'll turn it into a printed photo book to keep for prosperity.

This seems like as good a time as any to go over my photography ground
rules. I've seen far too much "photography" recently that attempts to
fix bad photography with the over-application of soft focus, sepia,
wonky angles and other miscellaneous effects. Also: if you're a
"photographer" at a wedding and all I can hear is the beeping of your
camera, you need to think hard about your career choice.

So, my ground rules?

**• Quality over quantity.** Digital isn't an excuse to take hundreds of
shots of the same thing in the hope that one will come out. Think about
your shots before you take them.

**• Minimal editing.** Cropping, slight contrast and saturation bumps,
etc are fine. Editing out a tree isn't.

**• Less is more.** Effects can sometimes enhance a picture, but only if
used sparingly. As a rule, if I look at a scene and wish I had my old
film camera and some black-and-white film, it's OK to make that picture
black-and-white on the computer. Hell, in some instances I'll go to town
on a picture — the following photo has a ton of effects applied to it,
but hopefully it follows the ethos I follow with HDR photography: if you
can tell it's HDR (or has had loads of effects applied to it), you're
doing it wrong:

[![RX-8 at Night](http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4094/4941681777_9fda7b8f04.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/4941681777 "View 'RX-8 at Night' on Flickr.com")

So, starting today I'll hopefully be posting a photo a day of the area I
live in and Stockholm City. Don't expect any consistent level of
quality, though — I've been out of this game for a long time. In fact,
the first photo wasn't even taken by me — my fiancée took it while I was
messing around with a fishing rod.

I'll be uploading each day's photo to my Flickr set: [Sweden in Pictures](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ikenndac/sets/72157624840423878/).
If you use an RSS reader, you can keep up-to-date with it using this
[RSS feed](http://api.flickr.com/services/feeds/photoset.gne?set=72157624840423878&nsid=24169642@N06&lang=en-us).
If you don't, [follow me on Twitter](http://twitter.com/iKenndac/) and
I'll post on there when I've added a new photo.
