---
author: Daniel Kennett
date: '2010-06-12 21:57:33'
layout: post
slug: twitter-as-a-language-learning-tool
status: publish
title: Twitter as a Language Learning Tool
wordpress_id: '562'
categories:
- Sweden
---

![Swedish!](http://danielkennett.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/swedish_twitter_header_2.jpg)

If you [follow me on Twitter](https://twitter.com/iKenndac), it's no
surprise to you that I'm moving to Sweden in a few months (if not, um…
surprise!). I can't really go to live in another country without at
least *trying* to learn the language, so my girlfriend and I are doing
just that — we attend weekly Swedish lessons.

Now, I've already tried to learn a language — French. I learned it at
school and my mother is French, and although when I was a kid I hated
French and didn't want to learn it (something I now regret greatly), I
seem to know a lot of words. However, what I can't do is properly form
sentences. I'm a step above the [AVEY VOU UN CUP OF TEA?](http://translate.google.com/#fr%7Cen%7CAvez-vous%20un%20tasse%20de%20thé?)
level, but the French grammar more or less eludes me.

This worries me somewhat, as I'll be needing to use this on a day-to-day
basis. We're doing well in the Swedish lessons, but an hour + homework a
week isn't a lot of time or exposure to the language, and there's only
so much you can learn by going through textbooks on your own. I really
need to be learning the language *I* use on a day-to-day basis. However,
I'm a programmer so I don't get much translatable language there, and
it's not really practical to translate longer things like emails.

Then, it hit me — why not translate my Tweets? They're composed of
language I use all the time and they're also nice, small, bite-sized
chunks of prose, perfect for translating. So, to avoid annoying my
existing followers I created a new account —
[iKenndacSE](http://twitter.com/iKenndacSE). The aim is to translate
every tweet I write that isn't an @reply into that account.

### Making it Stick

Now, the easiest thing to do would be to paste each tweet into [Google Translate](http://translate.google.com/#sv%7Cen%7CJag%20kan%20talar%20Svenska!)
then put the resulting output on Twitter. Hell, I could write a script
to do that for me. However, I wouldn't learn a thing! So, here's how I
do it:

\1. Write the tweet down in a notebook, with a pen. No typing. This
re-affirms the language you just used.

> I've spent more time with my sketchbook than my code editor this week.

\2. Translate the tweet as much as you can, leaving gaps for words you
don't know or can't remember. Since I'm new to the language, there'll be
a lot of gaps.

> I've spent more time with my sketchbook than my code editor this week.
>
> Jag \_\_\_\_\_ mer tid med jag \_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_ jag \_\_\_
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_ \_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_.

\3. Translate each individual missing word using a service like Google
Translate or a dictionary, and fill them in — correcting for known word
structure differences with English. This allows you to see and learn
individual words one at a time.

> I've spent more time with my sketchbook than my code editor this week.
>
> Jag tillbringade mer tid med jag skissbok än jag kod redaktör den har
> veckän.

\4. Check the translation as a whole using either Google Translate or my
Swedish teacher. As words can change with context, the translation of
the whole thing may be different to the translations of each individual
word put together. This allows you to learn the intricacies and rules of
the language by example.

> I've spent more time with my sketchbook than my code editor this week.
>
> Jag tillbringade mer tid med jag skissbok än jag kod redaktör den har
> veckän.
>
> Jag tillbringade mer tid med skissbok än min kod redaktör här veckan.

\5. Write down new words alongside their English equivalent underneath.
This will eventually form a great reference to look back on and practice
with.

![Swedish!](http://danielkennett.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/swedish_twitter_header.jpg)

Above is the result — half a page's work for a single tweet. However,
the repetition of writing the tweet essentially three times makes the
language stick in your head much more than translating it on the
computer does — even if you do the same amount of work — I find typing
disconnects you from the language too much to stick.

![Swedish SMS](http://danielkennett.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/swedish-sms.png)

### So Far...

I've only been doing this for a few days, but it's already having a
positive effect on my Swedish. The downside is that it now takes ten
minutes to write a tweet rather than a few seconds, and it can be quite
hard to do when I want to tweet from out and about.

### Other Communication?

It took me far too long to realise that SMS messages are also perfect
for translating since they're just as short as tweets. However, sending
Swedish to my friends isn't exactly productive, so my girlfriend and I
have decided to text each other in Swedish.

Yes, I'll admit that that last one from me has a bit of the CHOCKLÅS
coming through.

P.S. My girlfriend isn't really called "My Girlfriend" in my phone.
