---
author: Daniel Kennett
date: '2011-08-20 22:07:52'
layout: post
slug: i-live-in-fucking-sweden
status: publish
title: '...I live in fucking SWEDEN!'
wordpress_id: '742'
categories:
- Sweden
---

### The Past

One year ago yesterday, my fiancé and I pulled up outside an apartment a
few kilometres south of Stockholm at 11am. We'd just spent the last four
days driving through equally driving rain from the UK through France,
Belgium, Germany, Denmark and Sweden. We'd camped each night in the
rain. We were wet, our tent was wet, our stuff was wet.

We breathed a sigh of relief. We were happy to finally arrive, even
through our journey had been gruelling but a lot of fun. We'd stopped by
the Nürburgring and the world's largest model railway on the way, both
of which were amazing. We took a 15 minute break before hauling all of
our stuff up three flights of stairs into our apartment.

We'd just moved to *Sweden.* We were both nervous and excited about the
time ahead, comforting ourselves with the fact that we could "just move
back to England" if it didn't work out.

### The Present

One year later, and we've just moved into another flat — one with no
maximum term, which we're happy about since we can stay here for decades
if we want to. Both my fiancé and I have jobs at Spotify, which we're
both enjoying more than we thought a day job could be enjoyed.

Living in Sweden is completely normal now. We get up and go to work,
then come home again. Drive to the supermarket to do our shopping. Have
LAN parties with our friends. Living in the UK seems like a distant
dream — not a good one, at times.

Occasionally I'll be doing something thoroughly *normal*and the enormity
of the last year will smack me in the face. Last time it happened, I was
driving, in my Volvo, to IKEA. A completely normal, *British* thing to
do. As I was driving, I noticed that the forest was nothing but pine
trees, which I thought was odd. Then, I remembered. "The forest is
nothing but pine trees because I live in fucking *Sweden!*" A smile
spread uncontrollably across my face as I remembered the year and a half
long buildup to moving, then one day packing as much stuff into the car
as we could and starting the trip across Europe.

I still can't decide if what we did was "big" or not — I've met quite a
few people who travel between countries a lot, so if you ask them what
we did is no big deal. Then again, I remember talking to some of our
friends in the UK before we left and trying to convey to their
confused-looking faces why on *earth* we'd move away from the town where
we'd grown up, much less the country we live in — if you ask them, what
we did would probably be an enormous thing.

### The Future

After all the uncertainty and worry that it'd be a disaster, we've only
been here for twelve months and I think we're here to stay. Between my
fiancé and I, we have around 48 years of collective experience of living
in the UK and, well, we both were kind of expecting to miss the UK at
least a *bit*. Personally, I miss a few of my friends but otherwise
wouldn't care if I never set foot in the country again. My fiancé is the
same, albeit also having a tightly-knit family in the UK. Sweden is by
no means perfect, but we seem to get on with the Swedish way of living
much more than the UK way.

It doesn't hurt, of course, that Sweden is *beautiful*. Of course, the
UK is beautiful in places too, but the following snapshots were taken
within 30km of the capital city. Try that around London!

[{% img center http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5049/5286442950_e06b10c73a_z.jpg %}](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/5286442950 "View 'Christmas Spirit' on Flickr.com")

[{% img center http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5205/5226442167_56c7a7db48_z.jpg %}](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/5226442167 "View 'Hiking The Dog' on Flickr.com")

[{% img center http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1355/5151788559_d8c4c5101b_z.jpg %}](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/5151788559 "View 'Lake Flaten at Sunset pt. 2' on Flickr.com")

[{% img center http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4111/5051541218_fbe3365de2_z.jpg %}](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/5051541218 "View 'Stairway to Heaven' on Flickr.com")

[{% img center http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4147/5089330347_d0cc414738_z.jpg %}](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/5089330347 "View 'Klara Kyrka's Autumn Dress' on Flickr.com")

[{% img center http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5249/5316965465_68d5e3c380_z.jpg %}](http://www.flickr.com/photos/24169642@N06/5316965465 "View 'A Very Swedish Road' on Flickr.com")