---
author: Daniel Kennett
date: '2011-01-25 20:46:27'
layout: post
slug: were-not-retreating-were-advancing-in-a-different-direction
status: publish
title: We're Not Retreating; We're Advancing in a Different Direction
wordpress_id: '711'
categories:
- Programming/Work
- Sweden
---

Oh, boy.

A few weeks ago, I gave a talk at a Stockholm Cocoaheads meeting about
being an "indie" developer. Rather than talking about programming, I
talked about the lifestyle and what it's like to live under this model,
eventually concluding that although it can be tough at times, the
tradeoffs are very much worth it if you can stomach the pitfalls of a
life without guaranteed fixed income.

{% img center http://danielkennett.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/Indietalkslide.jpg Indie Talk Slide %}

You can download the slides from the talk
[here](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1399296/Indie%20Life%20Slides.pdf).

Well, I feel a bit silly now.

As of February 7th, 2010, I will no longer be an independent developer —
I'm joining the great team at [Spotify](http://www.spotify.com/) here in
Stockholm. For the two of you on Earth who aren't aware of Spotify,
their tagline sums it up nicely: "All the music, all the time". They run
a music streaming service with the idea that you can listen to whatever
you want whenever and wherever you want to. It's a great service which
I've been using for a long time, and I'm really excited to be able to
help make it better.

{% img center http://danielkennett.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/SpotifyLogo.jpg Spotify Logo %}

I'm aware that this change is the opposite of what many think is the
ideal path. The idea is to work for "the man" for a few years while
slowly building up ideas and projects in your spare time, before
quitting and making a break for it as an independent developer. So, why
give up a successful independent software business and go work one
someone else's product?

Well, the last couple of years have
[been](http://danielkennett.org/blog/2010/02/playing-the-game%E2%80%A6-and-losing/)
[tough](http://danielkennett.org/blog/2009/05/being-passionate-about-x-and-running-a-business-in-x-are-incompatible-discuss/),
for sure. However, I've gone through the worst and am pretty much out
the other side. The main problem here is that I suck at running a
business. Like, *really*suck. I hate it. I want to be coding, not
dealing with payroll and VAT and corporation tax and so on.

Still, everything is looking up and I came to Sweden with the idea of
carrying on with it, and possibly incorporating in Sweden down the line
if we decided to stay.

Then, at the Cocoaheads meeting I mentioned above, I got chatting with a
guy from Spotify and how they were looking for more developers. After a
little while, we agreed to meet up at Spotify HQ for an informal chat
(which I later learned was actually my first interview), after which I
was invited back a second time for a "more formal" interview.

At this point, I realised that I needed to sit down and figure out what
I wanted to do, since it wouldn't be fair to go back knowing that I'd
never take a position because of my indie work. So, I sat down with my
fiancée and talked it out — what it'd mean for us, if we would be happy
to stay in Sweden long-term, and so on. Eventually, it boiled down to
one question:

> In ten years, which decision could I most regret taking?

This was fairly easy. I know I have the skills to be an indie developer,
even if I hate certain aspects of it. I did it once, and I can do it
again. If working at Spotify turns out to be the wrong decision, I can
leave and start again.

However, what if I turn down a position at Spotify? This could be the
only chance I'll ever get, and I'd never know what I missed out on.

So, I went to my "more formal" interview confident that I was interested
in a position at Spotify. It went well, until they asked a very academic
question that could've been on a computer science exam paper. I
completely blanked — the question was on Complexity, and while I did it
at university and have practical knowledge of implementing algorithms
and optimising them, I've pretty much lost the ability to express the
complexity of an algorithm as a function. I managed to muddle my way
through, showing my working and how I'd implement the algorithm, but
couldn't answer their question.

When I left, I was *crushed* — surprisingly so. This told me that deep
down, I *really* wanted to work at Spotify, but unfortunately I'd just
blown it. Rather upset, I headed home, confident that I wouldn't be
hearing back. I guess the fact that I'd been discussing it so much with
my fiancée, and that I'd pretty much decided I'd take the position if it
was offered set me up for a big fall.

A couple of weeks later, an email arrived. Spotify wanted to bring me
back for *two* more interviews! They wouldn't want to tell me how much I
sucked *twice*, would they? This must be a positive thing! The rest was
history, and I start in a couple of weeks.

### Q&A

#### What about your existing projects?

**Music Rescue** will continue to be available. It works just fine, and
I'll keep it that way. The in-progress major rewrite will be scrapped,
and in the next week or so I'll release an update (version 4.2) that'll
bring some of the completed under-the-hood changes planned for version
5.0, including a rewritten (faster!) copy engine, simplified licensing,
playlist folders, etc.

**Clarus** will continue in my spare time as a labour of love.

**Teleport: AddOns** will be finished, released and will continue in my
spare time as a labour of love. It'll also be free. Hooray!

**Open Source and Minor Projects** will continue to exist but only
worked on in my spare time.

#### So, wait, does that mean you'll be staying in Sweden forever?

Who knows what the future will bring? For now, though, yes.

#### So my friend and I started this *awesome* band. We're gonna be the next, like, JLS, you know? JLS but *ironic*. Can you get us on Spotify?

Sure! Go [here](http://www.spotify.com/se/work-with-us/labels-and-artists/).

#### Can you get me free stuff/subscriptions?

I think I have a couple of Spotify stickers somewhere. Other than that,
unfortunately not.

#### OMG YOU SELLOUT!

That isn't a question, but yes.

#### You're really going to stay in Sweden? It's SO COLD.

Sweden is awesome. In fact, before I even learned that Spotify needed
developers, I was looking for reasons to stay longer than 18 months. It
isn't as expensive to live here as I was led to believe, either.
